# Personal Reflection

### 1. How has your knowledge of the tech field changed since class began?
I’ve come to an understanding of what it means to be a full-stack developer, and it’s not as complicated as I assumed before this course! That’s been relieving. Additionally, I have had opportunities to understand the basics of many specializations within the tech industry. As a result, I have come to an (incomplete) understanding of what I may want to do moving forward. For example, I’ve learned that QA and automation is not my thing at all, and that security probably isn’t either (although I find security interesting). I think database management and data analysis is somewhat boring, though I am not against it. I love the front end. I enjoy the backend, and I like seeing everything come together. Additionally, I now understand some of the culture of a career in tech (as far as management, waterfall vs agile, and how vital google is haha).

### 2. What was the most difficult part of Foundations for you? And how did you overcome that?
The most difficult part was learning how to take the basic tools we were given, and scale them in a way that helped me be more marketable as a developer. For example, in class we talked about the fact that no one writes big apps in vanilla html/css/js these days. I also found myself constantly looking for greater challenges to learn the most I could from the exercises we were given. That ultimately led to me teaching myself foundational principles of React, React Router, and CSS frameworks like Tailwind CSS, and then implementing them in my Foundations capstone project.

### 3. Did you learn anything about the way you learn? What was it?
Not necessarily about my learning style, but I was able to leverage how I learn to learn better. For example, I spent hours on stack overflow, MDN, w3schools, and other well known sites in order to learn the frameworks I used throughout Foundations. Since I am persistent and retain information well, I was able to quickly build my knowledge base and transition that into getting things done.

### 4. How will you apply what you know about your learning style during Specializations?
I imagine it will be similar to how I applied it in foundations. My goal coming into DevMountain was to learn as much as possible as fast as possible, so I could become a marketable dev and find employment as soon as possible after finishing the program. That fostered the motivation I’ve had throughout the course to challenge myself to learn and use additional content and to do things the best I know how (whether that pertains to Big O or to UI/UX, etc.). With specializations, I imagine I will utilize a lot of googling, challenging myself, and relying on my foundational knowledge of C++ to learn Java.

### 5. What was your experience with pair programming like?
It was up and down. At its worst, I was on calls with people who were walking all over their house and didn’t seem to even want to be in the program. There was minimal communication and maximum frustration (on my end). At its best, I was helping to solve challenges my classmates were facing in an interactive way (talking through things and using VS Code’s Live Share extension). What I wanted but never really felt like I got was someone “on my level” with unique ideas, a thirst to learn, and a knack for figuring things out themselves, who I could shoot ideas back and forth with. For example, we had an exercise that seemed to require difficult logic to implement a solution. I was able to come up with a solution on my own, and messaged my class channel on Discord to ask if anyone would like to compare solutions. No one ever responded.

### 6. What part of Foundations did you enjoy the most?
As far as modules go, I really liked (re)learning html/js/css, and node/sql. I can't pick between one because I enjoyed seeing the full stack come together. What was really the most fun for me though, was ramping up my abilities by transitioning to React, Tailwind, and React Router. I took projects and rewrote them. With react being one of the most marketable JS frameworks in the industry today, I figured it would be a good way to make myself stand out. It certainly was fun to learn, and push until I was satisfied.